add batch property to model jinja fnction (#6590)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/model.md

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="cli" label="Command line interface">

> If you're using the Command line interface (CLI), use [log()](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/log) to print the full contents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using the command line interface (CLI), use [log()](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/log) to print the full contents:
```

</Tabs>

## Batch properties for microbatch models

> From dbt Core v1.9, the model object includes a `batch` property (`model.batch`), which provides details about the current batch when executing an [incremental microbatch](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch) model. This property is only populated during the batch execution of a microbatch model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting in dbt Core v1.9, the model object includes a `batch` property (`model.batch`), which provides details about the current batch when executing an [incremental microbatch](/docs/build/incremental-microbatch) model. This property is only populated during the batch execution of a microbatch model.
```

The following table describes the properties of the `batch` object. Note that dbt appends the property to the `model` and `batch` objects. 

| Property | Description | Example |  
| -------- | ----------- | ------- |
| `id` | The unique identifier for the batch within the context of the microbatch model. | `model.batch.id` |

> | `event_time_start` | The start time of the batch's [`event_time`](/reference/resource-configs/event-time) filter (inclusive). | `model.batch.event_time_start` |

Author: @QMalcolm what do we mean by 'inclusive' and 'exclusive' here?

Reviewer 2: @mirnawong1 great question ❤️ 

### Short answer
Inclusive means the value is included in the batch, exclusive means the value is excluded from the batch

### Long answer
To think specifically about inclusivity/exclusivity means with regard to a batch, consider the batch filter statement 
```
WHERE event_time >= event_time_start AND event_time < event_time_end
```
Things to note
1. The comparison of `event_time` to `event_time_start` used `>=` with the `=` part of the operator including the `event_time_start` as part of the range. This means the usage of `event_time_start` is _inclusive_ in the range selection 
2. In the comparison of `event_time` to `event_time_end` we used `<` meaning things up to, but **not equal to**, the `event_time_end` will be selected as part of the range. This means that `event_time_end` is _exclusive_ in the range selection.

Author: oh got it, thanks so much for taking the time to clarify 🙏

| `event_time_end` | The end time of the batch's `event_time` filter (exclusive). | `model.batch.event_time_end` |

### Usage notes

> `model.batch` is only available during the execution of a microbatch model batch. Outside of the microbatch execution, `model.batch` is `None`, and its sub-properties aren't accessible.

Reviewer: We sort of state this above. Maybe we could combine the two into a callout if it's important enough

> #### Example: Safeguard access to batch properties

Reviewer: Will the : impact the links at all? Maybe we could use the same [style we use elsewhere](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/collaborate/explore-projects#example-of-lenses) when `Example` is in the header 
```suggestion
#### Example of safeguarding access to batch properties
```

> We recommend to always check if `model.batch` is populated before accessing its properties. Use an `if` statement to ensure safe access to batch properties:

Author: ```suggestion
We recommend to always check if `model.batch` is populated before accessing its properties. To do this, use an `if` statement for safe access to `batch` properties:
```

```jinja

> {% if model.batch %}

Author: need a gut check if this snippet is correct?

Reviewer 2: Looks correct to me 🙂

  {{ log(model.batch.id) }}  # Log the batch ID #
  {{ log(model.batch.event_time_start) }}  # Log the start time of the batch #
  {{ log(model.batch.event_time_end) }}  # Log the end time of the batch #
{% endif %}
```

In this example, the `if model.batch` statement makes sure that the code only runs during a batch execution. `log()` is used to print the `batch` properties for debugging.

> #### Example: Log batch details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example of log batch details
```

This is a practical example of how you might use `model.batch` in a microbatch model to log batch details for the `batch.id`:

```jinja

> {% if model.batch %}

Author: need a gut check if this snippet is correct?

Reviewer 2: Looks correct to me 🙂
